#summary Describes the planar plottables that have been implemented. See also the list of GenericPlottables.
#labels Module-Blaise,Phase-Implementation,Component-Plottable

This page describes the planar plottables that have been implemented in `blaisecore`. See also the list of GenericPlottables.

= Implemented Features =

*Basic*
  * `PlaneAxes` (D) draws coordinate axes
  * `PlaneGrid` draws an underlying grid
  * `PlanePolarGrid` draws a polar grid

*Functions*
  * `PlaneFunctionGraph` extends `VComputedPath`: The graph of a simple function, with one input and one output. The domain is the visible portion of the real axis.
  * `PlaneParametricCurve` extends `VComputedPath`: A parametric curve, over a supplied domain (interval in *R*).
  * `PlaneParametricArea` (D) extends `VComputedPath`: A parametric area, over a supplied square domain (in *R*^2^), which is stored and drawn by a `VRectangle`. Uses an underlying function mapping *R*^2^ to *R*^2^. The domain may be dragged around by the user.
  * `PlaneSurfaceFunction` extends `VPrimitiveMappingPlottable`: Represents a function from *R*^2^ to *R* by a collection of dots drawn at regular intervals along a grid.

*Geometry*
  * `PlaneBezierCurve` (D) extends `VPointSet`: Draws a Bezier curve along with control points
  * `PlaneEllipse` (D) draws an ellipse whose width and height may be manipulated
  * `PlaneTriangle` (D) extends `VPolygon`: draws a shaded triangle between three points

*Vector Fields & Differential Equations*
  * TBD

= Dynamic Interaction with the Plot =

The class `PlanePlotResizer` allows the user to manipulate the boundaries of the plot window dynamically.

= Under Construction =
  * `PlaneImplicitFunction`


= Old Features =
Features which are crossed out have been implemented in the new version of Blaise.

*General*:
~~`Point2D`~~, ~~`PointSet2D`~~, ~~`DynamicPointSet2D`~~, `CirclePoint2D`
~~`Segment2D`~~, ~~`Vector2D`~~, ~~`Line2D`~~, ~~`Ray2D`~~, _`Slope2D`_
~~`Polygon2D`~~, ~~`Triangle2D`~~, _`HalfPlane2D`_

*Functions*:
_`Piecewise2D`_, ~~`PlaneFunction2D`~~, `ContourPlot2D`, ~~`VectorField2D`~~
`FunctionSampleSet2D`, `FunctionPoint2D`, `SecantFunction2D`
_`IterativeSet2D`_, ~~`DESolution2D`~~

*Fun Stuff*:
~~`Clock2D`~~, `FractalEdge2D`

*Specialty*:
~~`Grid2D`~~, ~~`PolarGrid2D`~~
~~`Axes2D`~~, _`PolarAxes2D`_