#summary Description of 3D plottables in the `blaisecore` package
#labels Component-Plottable,Module-Blaise,Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TableOfContents

This page describes the 3d plottables that have been implemented in `blaisecore`. See also the list of GenericPlottables.

= Implemented Features =

*Basic Plottables*
|| *Name of Class* || *Description* || *Base Class(es)* || *Annotations* ||
|| `SpaceAxes` || Displays axes and coordinate planes. || || ||
|| `SpaceBox` || A test set of cubes near the origin. || || ||

*Function Plottables*
|| *Name of Class* || *Description* || *Base Class(es)* || *Annotations* ||
|| `SpaceFunctionGraph` || Displays a function with two inputs and one output. || || ||
|| `SpaceParametricCurve` || Displays a parametric curve with one input and three outputs. || || ||
|| `SpaceParametricSurface` || Displays a parametric surface with two inputs and three outputs. || || ||
|| `SpaceVectorField` || Displays a function with three inputs and three outputs as a vector field. || `VPrimitiveMappingPlottable` || ||
|| `TwoCurveSurface` || Displays a parametric surface that is created as the span of two input curves. || `SpaceParametricSurface` || ||


= Testing & Experimental =

|| *Name of Class* || *Description* || *Base Class(es)* || *Annotations* ||
|| `DerivedSpaceField` || Displays various fields that are "derived" from a basic field. || `SpaceVectorField` || ||
|| `SpaceParametricSurfacePatch` || Displays a single patch of a surface. || || ||


= Dynamic Interaction with the Plot =

The class `SpacePlotResizer` allows the user to manipulate the boundaries of the plot window dynamically. Interaction modes are as follows:

  * `Drag` rotates the window's view.
  * `Alt+Drag` pans the view in the plane perpendicular to the camera.
  * `Ctrl+Drag` rotates the window as with a straight `Drag`, but also animates the rotation (if it is big enough) when the mouse button is released.
  * `Shift+Drag` restricts movement to purely horizontal or vertical.
  * `MouseWheel` zooms the plot in and out by changing the DPI.
  * `Shift+MouseWheel` keeps the camera in fixed position, but changes the projection plane; this basically just changes the perspective.


= Old Features =

Features which are ~~crossed out~~ have been implemented in the new version of *blaise*. Those in _italics_ were not implemented in the old version of *blaise* either.

*General*:
~~`Point3D`~~, ~~`PointSet3D`~~, ~~`DynamicPointSet3D`~~, ~~`InitialPointSet3D`~~, ~~`Vector3D`~~, `Plane3D`, ~~`Ray3D`~~, ~~`Line3D`~~, _`Triangle3D`_

*Functions*:
~~`Function3D`~~, ~~`VectorField3D`~~, ~~`ParametricCurve3D`~~, ~~`ParametricSurface3D`~~, _`ContourPlot3D`_, `LineIntegral3D`, `FluxIntegral3D`, `DESolution3D`

*Specialty*:
~~`Axes3D`~~, ~~`StandardGrid3D`~~