#summary Description of file formats supported in GraphExplorer

In what follows, *edge* denotes an undirected edge in a graph, while *arc* denotes a directed edge.

= _Edge list_ =
The simplest file contains a pair of integers (representing an arc) on each line, for example:
{{{
1 5
2 3
1 4
3 4
4 5
}}}
The integers may also be separated by any combination of commas and spaces:
{{{
1, 5
2, 3
1  ,4
3, 4
4 , 5
}}}
Anything after the second integer is ignored. The returned result is a directed graph, whose vertices correspond to the integers in the file.



= _pajek_ =

The _pajek_ file format has more support than any other format, although still only a few features from the standard format are supported. _Pajek_ files use integers to represent nodes, and are divided into sections whose headers begin with an asterisk `*`. The next section describes support for the standard features, and the one following describes some extensions that have been added on to support GraphExplorer.

== Standard _pajek_ ==

Standard _pajek_ files usually contain a section describing the vertices and a section describing the edges. If the vertex section is omitted, the vertices in the resulting graph are inferred from the edges.

=== Vertex Mode ===
A standard vertex declaration is:
{{{
*Vertices 4
1 "vertex 1"
2 "vertex 2"
3 "vertex 3"
4 last_vertex
}}}
The first entry in each line is the node's index, and the second is the node's label. Quotes are necessary if there is a space in the label. It is permissible to omit the label, but only if the line is not followed by another argument.

*Position argument*: The label may be followed by two (or three) float values representing the position of the node, for example:
{{{
*Vertices 4
1 "O" 0.0 0.0
2 "1" 1.0 0.0
3 "i" 0.0 1.0
4 "-i" 0.0 -1.0
}}}
Currently, a third float, if it exists, is ignored.

*Time argument*: If a bracketed expression `[...]` occurs somewhere in the line after the label, it represents one or more time intervals at which the vertex "exists". For example:
{{{
*Vertices 2
1 "A" [0,3.2-*]
2 "B" [1-2,3.5-4.5,5-6]
}}}
Each time interval expression consists of a list of time intervals (integers or floats), or single time instances. The `*` indicates plus or minus infinity, depending on its relative position. _*WARNING:* strict _pajek_ may require only integer times... I'm not sure on this_

*Other arguments*: Sorry, no other arguments (shape, color, size, etc.) are currently supported.

=== Edge list Modes (1 per line) ===
To represent arcs (undirected edges) with one per line:
{{{
*Arcs
1 2
2 3
3 4
4 5
}}}
To represent edges, the format is the same
{{{
*Edges
1 2
2 3
3 4
4 5
}}}

*Weight argument*: A float representing an edge weight may be used as a third argument. Any omitted value is assumed to be 1. Negative values are permissible. For example:
{{{
*Edges
1 2 1.0
2 3 -3.2
3 4 
4 5 4
}}}

=== Edge list Modes (multiple per line) ===
If the arcs/edges are unweighted, list modes can be used to include more than one edge per line. The directed version is:
{{{
*Arcslist
1 2 3 4 5 6
5 2 3
6 1
}}}
This creates a graph with edges pointing from 1 to each of 2,3,4,5,6; from 5 to each of 2,3; and from 6 to 1.

The undirected version works the same:
{{{
*Edgeslist
1 2 3 4
4 2 3
}}}

=== Matrix Mode ===
The matrix mode represents a weighted (or unweighted) graph with a single matrix, for example, here is a directed, unweighted graph:
{{{
*Matrix
0 0 1 1
1 0 0 1
0 1 0 0
1 0 0 0
}}}
And an undirected weighted graph:
{{{
*Matrix
0.0 2.0 1.0 0.0
2.0 0.0 3.5 -1.0
1.0 3.5 0.0 0.0
0.0 -1.0 0.0 0.0
}}}
_*NOTE:* In the case of a matrix, the resulting graph will be undirected if the matrix is symmetric._

== Modified _pajek_ ==


== Additional Comments on _pajek_ Format ==