#summary Description of the XML structure of a PursuitEvasion simulation
#labels Module-PEG,Featured

= Introduction =
This space describes the XML format for PursuitEvasion simulation files. Since the program is always changing, this may change somewhat over time.

= Overview =
The basic structure of the XML file follows. This should be saved in a `.xml` file.
{{{
<simulation OPTIONS>
  <team OPTIONS>
    <agent OPTIONS />
    ...
    <capture OPTIONS />
    ...
    <victory OPTIONS />
    ...
    <metric OPTIONS />
    ...
    <tasking OPTIONS />
    ...
  </team>
  ...
</simulation>
}}}

The `simulation` and `team` tags are full blocks, while the `agent`, `capture`, `victory`, `tasking`, and `metric` tags have options only. All tags may be used multiple times, except for the `simulation` tag. The full descriptions of the options are in the next section.

= Tag attributes =
== Simulation ==
{{{
<simulation stepTime="0.1" pitchSize="60.0" numSteps="250" name="Football Game" maxSteps="1000">
}}}

  * `name`: a name for the simulation (required; no default)
  * `numSteps`: the default number of steps in the simulation (default 250)
  * `maxSteps`: the maximum number of steps allowed if the simulation runs until a goal is achieved (default 1000)
  * `stepTime`: the time elapsed per step (default .1)
  * `pitchSize`: the area used to generate random players (default 60)

== Team ==

{{{
<team topSpeed="5.0" sensorRange="20.0" name="Sidelines" leadFactor="0.0" commRange="50.0" color="ff0000" behaviorCode="0" agentNumber="20">
}}}

  * `name`: a name for the team (required; no default)
  * `size`: number of agents on the team (default 0)
  * `color`: color used to represent the team, in hex (default gray, eg. `color="ff0000"`)
  * `topSpeed`: the maximum movement per unit time (default 5.0)
  * `sensorRange`: the range of sensing opponents (default 20.0)
  * `commRange`: the range of communications (default 50.0)
  * `behaviorCode`: integer code representing behavior (default 0; see table below)
  * `leadFactor`: the lead factor to use as required by the specific behavior (default 0.5)

_UNSUPPORTED ATTRIBUTES: `startCode`, `parametricPath`_

=====Team/Agent Behavior Codes=====
|| *Value* || *Meaning* ||
|| 0 || Stationary ||
|| 1 || Head straight to/from target ||
|| 2 || Head straight from/to target (direction swapped) ||
|| 3 || Leading; aim in front of target ||
|| 4 || Plucker leading; aim in front of target (slightly different algorithm) ||
|| 5 || Large circle search ||
|| 6 || Small circle search ||
|| 7 || Large quadrant search ||
|| 8 || Small quadrant search ||
|| 9 || Approach a path ||
|| 10 || _Follow a randomly generated path (UNSUPPORTED)_ ||
_Behaviors 5-8 follow a search pattern if there is no opponent in sight; and otherwise follow a leading behavior._


==Agent==
  * `name`: a name for the player (required; no default)
  * `color`, `topSpeed`, `sensorRange`, `commRange`, `behaviorCode`, `leadFactor`: specific values for the player to override the team settings (defaults same as for team)
  * `x` and `y`: the coordinates of the player (default 0,0)

==Metric==
Defines a metric used for simulation statistics.
  * `target`: the target team, given by the team `name` attribute (required; no default)
  * `type`: code for the particular metric algorithm (default 0; see table below) 
  * `threshold`: threshold for the capture, e.g. within 2 units implies captures (default 0)
  * `cooperationOn`: boolean used to determine whether statistics should include the cooperative value of this particular metric (default false)

=====Metric Type Codes=====
|| *Value* || *Meaning* ||
|| 0 || Minimum distance to targets ||
|| 1 || Maximum distance to targets ||
|| 2 || Average distance to targets ||
|| 3 || Opposing agent which is closest to capture ||
|| 4 || Number of active agents on own team ||
|| 5 || Number on team that are "safe" ||
|| 6 || Number of active opponents ||
|| 7 || Number of opponents that have been captured ||
|| 8 || Advantage in numbers over the opponent ||
|| 9 || Number of potential captures that have not been made ||
|| 10 || Number of opponents that have not been captured ||
|| 11 || Total time of the simulation ||
|| 12 || Time elapsed since the last capture ||
|| 13 || Percentage of opponents that have been captured ||

=== Capture ===
Represents a metric used to define when to remove a player from the game. Has all the properties of a `metric` plus:
  * `removalCode`: code describing whom to remove from the game after a capture (default 0; see table below)

=====Capture Action Codes====
|| *Value* || *Meaning* ||
|| 0 || Remove both agents involved in capture ||
|| 1 || Remove only the target (agent that is captured) ||
|| 2 || Remove only the agent that captures ||

=== Victory ===
Represents a metric used to assess victory or progress toward victory. Has all the attributes of `Metric` plus:
  * `eventLessCode` and `eventGreaterCode`: determine whether victory is achieved or lost depending on the relative value of the metric versus the threshold (default 0,0; see table below)
  * `gameEnding`: boolean determining whether the game should end when this metric is tripped (default false)

=====Victory Status Codes=====
|| *Value* || *Meaning* ||
|| 0 || Indicates neither a win nor a loss ||
|| 1 || Indicates a win ||
|| 2 || Indicates a loss ||

== Tasking ==
Gives an algorithm that is used to generate movement for the team. Multiple taskings are supported and integrate using a weighted gradient technique.
  * `type`: code for the particular tasking algorithm (default 0; see table below)
  * `target`: the target team, given by the team `name` attribute (required; no default)
  * `algorithm`: code for the precise algorithm (default 0)
  * `taskType`: basically determines whether minimizing the distance is a good thing, generally pursuit, or a bad thing, generally evasion (default 0)
  * `weight`: used to weight multiple taskings (default 1.0)
 
_UNSUPPORTED ATTRIBUTES: `threshold`_

=====Tasking Algorithm Codes=====
|| *Value* || *Meaning* ||
|| 0 || No tasking done ||
|| 1 ||_Autonomous;_ assigns closest target ||
|| 2 || _Autonomous;_ assigns point along line between the two closest targets ||
|| 3 || _Autonomous;_ assigns farthest target ||
|| 4 || _Autonomous;_ assigns average position (center-of-mass) of targets ||
|| 5 || _Autonomous;_ assigns average direction of targets ||
|| 6 || _Autonomous;_ assigns direction of maximum increase of distance to targets (via gradient) ||
|| 7 || _Control;_ assigns targets using a greedy algorithm ||
|| 8 || _Control;_ assigns targets using linear program to optimize sum of assignment distance ||

=====Tasking Type Codes=====
|| *Value* || *Meaning* ||
|| 0 || Seek ||
|| 1 || Capture ||
|| 2 || Flee ||